*** powersaving_system ***

** Abstract **

One of the major problems in the most populated and developing countries like India, is Energy or Power crisis. Hence, there is a pressing need to conserve power. There are many simple ways to save electricity, like using the electric and electronic gadgets whenever and wherever needed and switching them off, while not in use. But in places such as class rooms and labs, there will be a fan or a light keeps running even when there are no people. This contributes to a considerable amount of electricity wastage. There are many ways to prevent this wastage. Here we propose a new method of controlling the power supply of class rooms using Image Processing. This is dual usage system in which a camera is used for detecting people as well as surveillance purpose. This is very simple, efficient and cheaper technique to save energy. Another big advantage is, we can extend this up to applications like home automation etc.

** Introduction **

It is a usual sight for us to see the lights/fans running in an empty classroom. The amount of electricity wastage is considerably high in such cases. More electricity wastage implies to a heavy electricity bill, something that disappoints people. As a solution to this common problem, we came up with an idea to develop a system with the concept of Image Processing and Raspberry pi that controls the power usage of the room based upon the presence of humans in the room.

Using this system, we monitor the changes in the room through sequence of images and according to that, the power supply is controlled. Image processing is a form of signal processing for which the input is an image, and the output may be either an image or a set of characteristics or parameters related to the image. Most image-processing techniques involve treating the image as a two-dimensional signal and applying standard signal- processing techniques to it. The implementation of power supply control using image processing is relatively very simple. The image of the empty class room is taken as a reference image, using a digital camera in an elevated view. The image is converted to gray and edge detection is done. Similarly, the captured real time image is enhanced and edge detected. These two images are compared and using the comparison results, respective control signals are generated using a hardware prototype. The reference and real time images undergo the following processes starting from their acquisition, Gray conversion, Partitioning, Edge detection, Comparison and finally generating the control signals.

Live camera feed is used as an input. Using Face Detection in MATLAB, the GPIO signals are generated for Raspberry Pi. A LED is connected through a circuit board to the Raspberry Pi GPIO pin. If a human face is detected, the LED turns on and if not, LED turns off.
